# Uncovering K-Way Balanced Consensus Communities in Signed Multilayer Networks. 
Manuscript accepted to the 2025 IEEE International Workshop on Machine Learning for Signal Processing (MLSP), August 31 – September 3, 2025, Istanbul, Turkey.

Abstract: Modular organization is a crucial property of brain networks shaping communication processes. Brain networks are intrinsically multilayer since the connectivity can vary across time and subjects. Identifying the community structure of multilayer brain networks is important for a deeper understanding of neural processes underlying cognition. The current multilayer community detection methods primarily focus on unsigned graphs. Functional connectivity networks constructed from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data are signed, as the pairwise correlations between regions can be negative. Current work mostly ignores these negative correlations when transforming the correlations to graphs. However, the negative links are important for understanding large-scale modulation. In this paper, we introduce three different spectral clustering-based methods for multilayer community detection in signed graphs. The proposed methods employ the balanced normalized signed Laplacian and provide fusion across layers. The proposed frameworks are evaluated on both simulated network data and fMRI data to study the community structure across subjects.

The implementation of three different spectral clustering-based methods for multilayer community detection in signed graphs is given here.

For questions or collaborations, feel free to contact me at athamnah@msu.edu
